Improve Kedro-Viz docs for Experiment Tracking (#2193)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/visualisation/experiment_tracking.md

# Experiment tracking in Kedro-Viz

Experiment tracking is the process of saving all machine-learning related experiment information so you can compare different runs.

[Kedro-Viz](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-viz) supports native experiment tracking from [version 4.1.1](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-viz/releases/tag/v4.1.1) onwards. When experiment tracking is enabled in your Kedro project, you will be able to access, edit and [compare your experiments](#access-run-data-and-compare-runs) and additionally [track how your metrics change over time](#view-your-metrics-timeline).

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_demo_small.gif)

To enable the experiment tracking features of Kedro-Viz you need to:

> - [set up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-the-session-store),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Set up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-the-session-store),
```

> - [set up experiment tracking datasets to list the metrics to track](#set-up-tracking-datasets),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Set up experiment tracking datasets to list the metrics to track](#set-up-tracking-datasets),
```

> - [Set up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-the-session-store),
> - [Set up experiment tracking datasets to list the metrics to track](#set-up-tracking-datasets),
> - [Modify your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [set up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-the-session-store),
- [set up experiment tracking datasets to list the metrics to track](#set-up-tracking-datasets),
- [modify your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics).
```

Reviewer: Sorry, @tynandebold This was my introduction -- I forgot the guidelines for bullets 🤦

Author: Now I'm confused. Should they be capitalized or lowercase?

Reviewer: You know what, I'll roll it back to capitals, since other pages of the docs do have them capitalised. I've no idea when/if that's a change, as I may be thinking of another style guide, but that doesn't explain why the bullets in the original copy were lower case here. Never mind. I'm now happy for you to merge this when you are ready.

Author: Copy that!

> - [modify your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Modify your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics).
```

In the past, Kedro had limited support for this functionality. For example, it was possible to version parameters as part of your codebase with a version control system like `git` and [snapshot models, datasets and plots with Kedro’s dataset versioning capabilities](../data/data_catalog.md#version-datasets-and-ml-models). However, Kedro needed a way to log metrics and capture all this logged data as a timestamped run of an experiment. It also needed a way for users to visualise, discover and compare this data.

We started adding in the missing pieces from [Kedro-Viz `>=4.1.1`](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro-viz/releases/tag/v4.1.1). When experiment tracking is enabled in your Kedro project, you will be able to access, edit and [compare your experiments](#access-run-data-and-compare-runs) and additionally [track how your metrics change over time](#view-and-compare-metrics-data).

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_demo_small.gif)

> ## When should I use experiment tracking in Kedro?

Reviewer 2: I will need help from @stichbury and @NeroOkwa in this new section. Does this content work?

Reviewer 2: From @NeroOkwa: "yeah looks great!"

Reviewer: Yep, looks good to me. I've made one suggestion but it's not a huge issue so you can leave as you've edited if it's simpler.

The choice of experiment tracking tool depends on your use case. We can present the possibilities for Kedro, MLflow and Neptune: 

 - **Kedro** - If you need experiment tracking, are looking for improved metrics visualisation and want a lightweight tool created to leverage existing functionality in Kedro. Kedro does not support a model registry. 

>  - **MLflow** - If you require experiment tracking, model registry and/or model serving capabilities or have access to Managed MLflow within the Databricks ecosystem. Experiment tracking in Kedro is a visual upgrade of your experience using MLFlow Tracking. Leverage [`kedro-mlflow`](https://kedro-mlflow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) for your workflow. 

Reviewer: I have a bit of a problem with "Experiment tracking in Kedro is a visual upgrade of your experience using MLFlow Tracking. Leverage `kedro-mlflow` for your workflow. " as it sounds like marketing and doesn't explain how Kedro upgrades MLFlow Tracking visually.

Can I suggest:

```suggestion
 - **MLflow** - You can combine MLFlow with Kedro by using [`kedro-mlflow`](https://kedro-mlflow.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) if you require experiment tracking, model registry and/or model serving capabilities or have access to Managed MLflow within the Databricks ecosystem.  
```

> # Experiment tracking in Kedro-Viz

Author: I've updated the wording here to be consistent with the other titles of the sections under `Visualisation with Kedro-Viz`.

> Enabling experiment tracking features on Kedro-Viz relies on:

Reviewer: I'd be tempted to make this more imperative.

```suggestion
To enable the experiment tracking features of Kedro-Viz you need to:
```

> - [Setting up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-the-session-store),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Set up a session store to capture experiment metadata](#set-up-the-session-store),
```

> - [Experiment tracking datasets to let Kedro know what metrics should be tracked](#set-up-tracking-datasets),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Set up experiment tracking datasets to list the metrics to track](#set-up-tracking-datasets),
```

> - [Modifying your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Modify your nodes and pipelines to output those metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics).
```

SESSION_STORE_ARGS = {"path": str(Path(__file__).parents[2] / "data")}
```

This will specify the creation of the `SQLiteStore` under the `data/` subfolder, using the `SQLiteStore` setup from your installed Kedro-Viz plugin.

Please ensure that your installed version of Kedro-Viz `>=4.1.1`. This step is crucial to enable experiment tracking features on Kedro-Viz, as it is the database used to serve all run data to the Kedro-Viz front-end. Once this step is complete, you can either proceed to [set up the tracking datasets](#set-up-tracking-datasets) or [set up your nodes and pipelines to log metrics](#set-up-your-nodes-and-pipelines-to-log-metrics); these two activities are interchangeable, but both should be completed to get a working experiment tracking setup.

## Set up tracking datasets

There are two types of tracking datasets: [`tracking.MetricsDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.MetricsDataSet) and [`tracking.JSONDataSet`](/kedro.extras.datasets.tracking.JSONDataSet). The `tracking.MetricsDataSet` should be used for tracking numerical metrics, and the `tracking.JSONDataSet` can be used for tracking any other JSON-compatible data like boolean or text-based data.

> Set up two datasets to log the columns used in the companies dataset (`companies_columns`) and experiment metrics for the `active_modelling_pipeline` (`active_modelling_pipeline.metrics`) like the coefficient of determination (`r2 score`),  max error (`me`) and mean absolute error (`mae`) by adding the following in the `conf/base/catalog.yml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up two datasets to log the columns used in the companies dataset (`companies_columns`) and experiment metrics for the data science pipeline (`metrics`) like the coefficient of determination (`r2 score`),  max error (`me`) and mean absolute error (`mae`) by adding the following in the `conf/base/catalog.yml` file:
```

```yaml

> active_modelling_pipeline.metrics:

Reviewer 2: My only other comment is based on this and it might need to be a bigger change to how we structure this tutorial. We introduce namespacing here and in the plot comparison section (`data_processing.confusion_matrix` in `catalog.yml`) but we don't actually explain what the full stop means here. 

It's important that we do because I got confused with the guidance in 113 - `Note that the output dataset must exactly match the name of the tracking dataset specified in the catalog file.` because users are asked to just specify `metrics` and not `active_modelling_pipeline.metrics`. 

So my question would be: 
 - Can we, ideally, do this tutorial without introducing the concept of namespaces too (it's an information overload)?
 - And if not, how do we introduce it?

Reviewer 3: Great spot @yetudada ! We do indeed not need the namespace here, as no namespacing has been applied to the pipelines.

Reviewer 2: Awesome let me update the other mentions of `active_modelling_pipeline.metrics` 😊

> active_modelling_pipeline.metrics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
metrics:
```

)
```

> Repeat the same steps to set up the `companies_column` dataset. For this dataset, log the column that contains the list of companies as outlined in the `companies.csv` file under the `data/01_raw` directory. Modify the `preprocess_companies` node under the `data_processing` pipeline (`src/kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial/pipelines/data_processing/nodes.py`) to return the data under a key value pair, as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Repeat the same steps to set up the `companies_column` dataset. For this dataset, log the column that contains the list of companies as outlined in the `companies.csv` file under the `data/01_raw` directory. Modify the `preprocess_companies` node under the `data_processing` pipeline (`src/kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial/pipelines/data_processing/nodes.py`) to return the data under a key-value pair, as shown below:
```

![](../meta/images/experiment-tracking_demo.gif)

## View and compare plots

From Kedro-Viz `>=5.0.0` experiment tracking also supports the display and comparison of plots, such as Plotly and Matplotlib. This section will show you how to enable this functionality to leverage Matplotlib. [Similar instructions can be followed for Plotly](../visualisation/visualise_charts_with_plotly.md). 

### Update the dependencies

You must update the `src/requirements.txt` file in your Kedro project by adding the following dataset to enable Matplotlib for your project:

```bash

> kedro[matplotlib.MatplotlibWriter]==0.18.3

Reviewer: True! I have to make some wholesale changes to the other viz docs when that PR merges so can remove this then if you merge this PR ahead of #1214 but otherwise, if it won't merge in until later, you can certainly remove this.

> kedro[matplotlib.MatplotlibWriter]==0.18.3

Author: I've removed it since this PR will be merged in the next couple of days.

And now add this node to the `data_processing` pipeline (`src/kedro-experiment-tracking-tutorial/pipelines/data_processing/pipeline.py`)

```python

> from .nodes import create_confusion_matrix

Author: This import was missing. Without it, doing a `kedro run` failed.
